Hello welcome back to the course on Tablo.
And in today's tutorial we will be creating a map and we will learn how to work with hierarchies.
If you recall the first time we created a map was in the very first section of the Course that time
we created a map of the US and we kind of analyzed how a certain store was performing across the different
states of the US.
Today we'll be working with a map of Europe and we will spend much more time on it so that we can understand
exactly how to work geographically daughter and tablet.
So let's get straight to it.
First thing we're going to do is we're going to save a workbook because we didn't do that last time
so click save as Section 4.
There we go.
And now we're going to start by creating our first hierarchy and why do we need a hierarchy.
Well that is because we have certain elements of geographical information in our data that we need to
tell tabbouleh how they work together and let's have a look at that.
So here on the left and the dimensions you can see right away that some fields have been picked up as
geographical data and the globe represents that some fields have been picked up as text and some fields
have been picked up as date.
And so here we have three elements of geographical data that Tablo recognizes it's the city the country
and the state.
No region is also an element of geographical daughter it's North South Central or west or east Europe.
But in this case Tabeau doesn't have that geographical or the level of geographical information or that
layer.
So in this case Tablo doesn't recognize it and that's OK for us because it's sufficient for us to work
with these three.
Now at the same time these are all elements of geographical information but we also know that a city
can only be in one country a country can only be in one state.
So therefore there is a hierarchy and natural hierarchy there and we have to show Tablo how it works
and Trouble is already prompting us to create a hierarchy here and we can go ahead with that.
But for now we'll just delete this hierarchy that the table has prompted for us and we'll create all.
So we'll just click Remove hierarchic And now we will start recreating all.
The easiest way to do it is to take any of the elements let's say a city and drag it onto its apparent
element.
So in this case country.
And so now we will is tableaus prompting us to create a hierarchy called Country City but we'll just
call it geography because we know that we will add more into this hierarchy just now.
So if we do that right away you can see that country and city have been moved into this hierarchy separately
away from the rest of the dimensions.
So now if we take state and we also move it in here we can put them in between Put in between.
We can put it anywhere but we know that state goes between country and city.
So that's where we will put it.
And now we have create a natural hierarchy for us to work with going forward.
And so now what we can do is we can take country and we can drag it into our workspace and once we've
done that right away you can see a map of Europe has appeared.
So I'll just make this more so that we can zoom in a little bit so a map of Europe has appeared and
the dots represent the countries that are in our data set.
So there is United Kingdom Germany Norway and so on.
Now you can also see this little plus sign and the plus sign appears because there is a hierarchy that
Tablo knows about.
The one that we just created and it knows that it can drill into the data further.
And that's why it's allowing us to do it.
So if we click the plus sign right away you can see that instead of a dot for every country now we have
a dot for every state.
So let's zoom in to France for instance and you can see here that in every single state of France there
is a dot.
And that's because we are looking at the level of granularity of state.
And that's because we have state as you recall whatever dimensions are listed on our work sheet.
That's the level of granularity that Talos going to be looking at.
So once again we can click this plus sign on the state and that will drill in further into city.
So now we have every dot represents the city so we have a dot for every single city that our that is
present in our data set.
So there's a yeah there is this really my pronunciation might not be the best but as you can see there's
a lot more dots here right now.
And in fact you can keep track of the number of marks on your chart or map as we discussed in the bottom
left corner here.
Right now there's 1001 marks.
So that's quite a lot of data points.
And we can really start working with this.
In fact we're going to go back one step and we will leave the map at the level of granularity of a state.
So we'll just collapse that.
And now let's go ahead and start working with this.
So what are we going to do.
First things first.
Is is always important to know how many if you have more than one year in your data and you know because
you've got to be careful not to aggregate information from different ears.
If you don't need that.
So first thing we're going to do is we're going to take a date and drag it into filters and we already
know how to work the filters right.
So we're going to add it into filters here and we will just choose not to range of dates but we'll choose
years.
So next and let's say we want to look at 2012 to start with.
Okay.
And just as we did before what are we going to do is we're going to create a quick filter shock quick
filter.
There it is our quick filter so I'll just make the Workbook a little bit smaller so we can fit our quick
filter in.
And in this case we obviously don't need oil.
So what are we going to do is customize show all value we don't need it and we will change this to a
single value slider so now you can slide along and you can see how the data change.
So that was the first thing that we wanted to do.
And now working with a single year what we're going to do is we're going to create some colors and some
sizes on our chart.
So first thing we're going to do is we're going to say that we want to look at how many sales were done
in every single of these.
Every single one of these regions so we're going to take sales and we'll drag it onto size and right
away we can see that the bubbles have changed size because now they represent cells and they look a
bit some Also let's increase the size a little bit.
Let's take it to this level for instance and then we'll go to colors and give it a border let's say
a black border to make it kind of stand out a little bit.
That's good.
Now what we're going to do is we're going to create a calculated field that what we want to do and what
was told in the challenge what we were told in the challenge is to look at the profit margin for every
single state.
So let's go ahead and do that we need to create a field that will take some of profit and divided by
the sum of sales and that will give us a profit margin.
So we're going to right click on profit here.
We will go to create a calculated field and here we'll call it profit margin.
We need some of profits.
So it's important to take the sum of all the profits for all the orders in that specific region first
and then divided by the sum of total sales for that region.
Rather than divide taking profit you about and then taking the sum so it's important here to first sum
up all the profits sum up all the sales and then divide one by the other.
Click Apply.
OK.
So we have profit margin now.
And now if we take profit margin and drag it on to color what you will see is that the field here is
called a G.G. profit margin which means aggregate of profit margin.
Basically it's telling us that this is already an aggregated field because profit margin is a calculated
field which takes which first takes the sum of profit and divide by the sum of so tablets telling us
that this is not just a single value field it's an action aggregated field and just kind of warning
us about that.
So what we're going to do is we're going to adjust the colors and we're going to take let's say in sort
of red green Let's go Red Blue.
We'll apply that and now we will say that we want a specific levels of profit margin.
So anything below 0.5 minus 0.5 is already very bad.
Anything over zero point five is great.
So for click Apply we'll get a chart like that.
And so that's that's pretty much it that's what we wanted from our map.
Now if we scroll around we can see how the profit margins and the sales changed over the years.
And once again if you put your mouse over any specific region or any specific state it will tell you
the country the state the sales and the profit margin for that specific period of time that you're looking
at.
So let's go up here because we can zoom out a bit because we've got Sweeden here still going which Finland
and so on.
So we can see how they're changing as well what else you can do is you can highlight highlight things
here so that say you can do us where highlighting like that if you like but we'll talk more about this
a bit in a bit when we're working with our first dashboard.
So that's just the different types of highlighting you have and.
So have a play around with that see what else you can do maybe you want to not look at profit margin
but some other parameter or some other metric of how the regions or how the states are performing.
Maybe you want to drill down to city level so here right away you can see we have many many more circles
and this is showing the same thing.
So basically the profit margin for every city maybe don't want to see that.
Maybe you can go back to country and look at individual countries rather than States.
So lots of things you can do with this map here.
And so I'll leave it at that for now in the next tutorial.
We will create a scatterplot and then in that tutorial.
After that we will finally create our first dashboard where we will start combining worksheets.
So I hope you enjoyed this tutorial and I look forward to seeing you next time.
And until then happy analyzing.